So let's move on to how to set or
why to segment your audience and
kind of how to do that.
So, this idea of segmenting
your audience is
a marketing thing basically,
he says pulling a face.
But it is very important cuz different
audiences have very different needs,
but the traditional ways of segmenting
your audience don't really work very
well with UX, right?
They work well with marketing, segmenting
people by their social economic group for
example, right?
Makes sense when you're doing marketing
but from a UX point of view and
the kind of work we do,
not so much, right?
What we care about is things like
what questions people have, right?
Audiences that have different
questions from one another should
be segmented differently.
So going back to that
University of Florida example,
the questions that I have as
an existing employee compared
to a potential employee,
compared to a HR manager.
We have very different questions, so
it made sense to split people in that way,
right?
Based around their different question
needs, tasks is another one.
So again using that example, well
splitting them along those lines because
the tasks that somebody who had just
joined the institution is very different.
From the tasks that somebody
who had been there for
20 years need to do
with their health care.
So splitting them around those made
sense again because you use questions
in the tasks, and
third one are needs, right?
Some users have specific needs that
you need to comprehend whether
that be around language or
cognitive requirements, etc.
So you can see how the way
that I'm splitting it here
isn't demographics, right?
It is about their interactions,
their requirements, etc.
So whenever you get an audience and
you're defining your audiences,
is always try and split them around
those three things, questions,
tasks, and
needs will make your life a lot easier.
So just to kind of give
you an example of that,
when we were segmenting around based on
needs with the University of Florida.
We have prospective employees that
wanted an overview of their healthcare
options and
what they might get as an employee.
Then you had your new employees
that needed to know how to pick and
enroll on a specific health plan.
So again, different tasks,
different needs there,
existing employees that wanted
to switch between health plans,
maybe they just had a kid or
got married or whatever else.
So they had their own set of needs and
then managers that had to
approve a health plan or
support staff in their choices.
So how do you go about kind of
understanding the user's needs and
what drives them?
So once you've kind of defined
your different audiences, well,
let's look at what's useful to know,
right?
They're not all crucial,
you don't need to know all of these but
I'm just giving you a list of things
that I tend to keep an eye out for and
I kinda wanna know when I'm
understanding an audience.
I've already said what
questions they have, right,
what are they seeking answers to?
Lot of the stuff especially with websites
obviously more so than apps, but
with websites most of the time you're
trying to get an answer to a question.
What objections is a common one?
So if you're Upselling something or
you've got a service that your website is
offering, why are users not acting,
why are they abandoning the experience?
We're stopping them,
what are their objections?
I wanna know what their goals are, what
they try to ultimately achieve, and then
I wanna know what the tasks are that they
have to do to achieve that goal, right?
But then there are other things that are
of interest as well, so there's things I
like to know about people's state of mind,
how they're feeling during the experience.
Which may sound like tree huggy territory,
but
it's actually very useful to
know with certain things.
So for example, planning a holiday or
a vacation, sorry,
we're in America, planning a vacation.
So when you're planning a vacation,
how you feel changes quite dramatically
over that planning process to begin with.
You're very excited, the possibilities
as you narrow things down,
you get more excited as
it gets more focused.
Then it comes to the moment of paying,
and suddenly you're a bit nervous and
actually booking it is a bit scary, then
it gets exciting again before you go away.
But as you come up to the moment of
going away, they're all concerns and
worries about have you got the right
visas and all that kind of stuff.
Then there's the holiday, the vacation and
the excitement and enjoying that but
there probably are difficulties
to overcome as well,
do you see how it's a real
roller coaster emotionally?
So there are certain situations where
state of mind is really important,
I've worked with a mental health
charity that had a suicide hotline.
State of mind is pretty important
on that one, so it does vary,
influences, what's influencing
the experience the user is having?
That may be people, it may be
publications, it may be social media
influences, a lots of things will affect
how people respond in a situation.
Then there are things like challenges,
what pain points are users
experiencing during their interaction?
And then the final one is touch points,
what different ways is a user
interacting with the experience?
I'll come back to touch
points in a minute,
you got your primary things,
which are the main things you wanna know,
and then your secondary things
which are nice to have.
So touchpoints might be are they
going into a store like you were
talking about earlier, or
are they receiving emails or
is it via a web app or is it a native app,
is it web based app, etc.
So these are the kinds of things I
know as I've already said I start by
consolidating what is
already in an organization.
But to get really specific
about what I'm looking for
I tend to look see if there's
any existing user research.
Don't really care if it's years old
as long as I'm aware it's years old,
it's still nice to see
anything that already exists,
any existing testing that's
been done in the past, right?
Still interesting to see,
I often have a chat with customer
facing staff always find out.
In fact, that's my number one go to first
thing I always do anybody who talks to
the customer,
I love to have a quick chat with them.
Customer support staff
are particularly good the reason
being is they keep lists
of common questions.
Which are wonderful to have,
cuz that's all of their problems and
pain points, so that's great.
Often dive into site analytics
just to kinda see where people
are dropping out is the main thing
where are people leaving the site.
Often talk to the social media team if
there is one cuz that's really good for
kind of things people are saying
about the brand online.
Sometimes I get into CRM data and kind
of have a nose around there but not so
much that's not such a big one.
I sometimes look at what search terms
are used around the application or
site so I can kind of see if there's
any reoccurring themes there.
And then finally obviously I'll
look at any existing personas,
now I know that looks like a lot and I'm
not suggesting you do all of them, right?
Again ,do what you can maybe you
can't get any of that stuff and
that's fine, then fair enough you can.
If it turns out to be there was some user
research that was done five years ago but
nobody really knows where it is, don't
waste your time hunting around for ages.
But if you can lay your hands on it
quickly great, give it a skim, right?
So don't be intimidated by any of these
things that I'm saying, cuz you can
just do what you can really, something is
better than nothing, back to that mantra.
So once I've kind of had a little look
over whatever there is, sometimes I'll
spend a day doing that, sometimes
I'll spend an hour doing that, right?
Sometimes occasionally I'll spend
several days diving into analytics,
so I'm not an analytics person.
So once I've kind of done all that,
then basically there are gaps, right?
There are things that I wanna
know that aren't there, and
they kinda come in three forms.
There's missing information,
there's particular things that I
wanna know that just aren't there.
Then there's out date
information in other words,
there's stuff that is there but
I can't really get at it,
or yeah, this is what so
long ago that I don't think it's relevant.
And then there's stuff that sometimes
people write down and you go yeah,
that's someone made up,
I don't believe that